In this video we're going to learn about our third food group network.
So far we've learned about CPQ and memory virtualization.
Now let's take some time to focus on how network resources are delivered to virtual machines.
So in our diagram here we see a Windows virtual machine at the top left in our little blue box here.
And the Windows VM is running on a host on some sort of hypervisor and the Windows virtual machine has
what we call a virtual neck or V-neck.
Now here's the thing.
Windows doesn't know that it's running within a virtual machine.
So Windows expects to see all of the same sorts of hardware that it would see if it was running on a
physical server.
Windows is going to need to CCP in memory and we've already kind of covered how those are delivered.
But when it comes to network virtualization we need to provide our virtual machine a virtual network
interface card.
And so what Windows is actually going to see is drivers right it's going to see drivers for a neck for
a network interface card.
Windows is going to have no idea as the guest operating system that is not actually really a physical
neck.
It's a virtual neck.
It's fake hardware presented to our virtual machine as if it was real.
So if I were to have a physical server with a physical Nic I would connect it to a port on a physical
switch if I've got a virtual machine with a virtual neck.
I'm going to connect it to a port on a virtual switch much like we would do with a physical machine.
And so inside of our hypervisor we're going to have something called the Virtual switch.
And this is a switch in every sense of the word.
I can connect to multiple virtual machines to this virtual switch and they can communicate with each
other.
As long as I put those VMs on the same LAN they're gonna be able to communicate through that virtual
switch just like they would be able to communicate through any other type of switch.
So here we see the first VM is connected to a virtual switch.
I connect a second VM and I can now send traffic from one VM to another directly within that virtual
switch.
And that traffic never has to leave the ESX host as long as those virtual machines are on the same Villalon
and virtual switches do support villans as well.
And as long as those VMs are on the same VLAN they can communicate and the traffic never has to traverse
the physical network
but some of my traffic may need to traverse the physical network.
And so my virtual switch is going to need an uplink right just like a physical switch has uplinks to
maybe a higher level physical switch or to a physical router my virtual switch needs uplinks.
And what the uplinks are are the actual physical adapters on the host.
So they may be called the next physical next.
They may be called V.M. next.
That's what V.M. where refers to them as but when I create a hypervisor on a host that host has some
network interface cards or just like any other server what and I'm going to connect those physical network
interface cards on my host to a physical switch and that physical switch is going to have connections
to routers it's going to have a way to get traffic out to the Internet.
Right.
It's going to connect to other physical servers that are inside that same data center.
And so my virtual machines may need to communicate with all of those components.
And if there traffic needs to actually leave the host to talk to something that's outside the host or
to hit a router to get to another Villon or another network that traffic is going to flow out of my
VM.
Through the virtual switch out one of the virtual switches uplinks towards the physical network.
And when that traffic arrives at the physical switch I know it's labeled packy here but it's really
an Ethernet frame when that Ethernet frame arrives at the physical switch the physical switch will do
a Mac table lock up it will pump it out the appropriate port towards the appropriate destination where
that packet needs to go.
Or maybe it's headed to the Internet.
Maybe it's headed to a physical host on my own local network.
Who knows.
But now I've established the ability for all of my virtual machines to communicate with all of the devices
on my physical network.
And that's what a virtual switch does.
And really the first element of this whole equation is to basically trick the guest operating system
into thinking Yup you've got to you've got a network interface card.
Right.
So will supply drivers to Windows and it will think it has an actual hardware device but when it sends
those packets out when it sends that traffic out the traffic is really getting sucked up by instant
really pictured here.
But it's getting sucked up by the hypervisor and the hypervisor is pointing it towards the appropriate
virtual switch.